Friends here our concert is why we need to build
a custom Docker image C. Before understanding about this concept, first,
let me give a simple setup that is simply deploying
Jenkins application on Tomcat application server using Docker CentOS container.
Now, for this setup,
we need some requirements.
The very first one is sent to a container and wake creating CentOS container,
we need to map Docker container port with the docker host.
See if you have any doubts on why we
need to map Docker container port with the docker host.
Please follow my previous video.
Then. Next one is we need to install Java with container
because we are running Jenkins application on Tomcat application server.
And in that case,
Tomcat application server needs Java.
That's why we need to install Java with container,
then install Tomcat with container.
Then we need to download the Yankees dot var file and we have to
copy that to Tomcat or web apps folder so that Tomcat,
we'll run our jenkins application.
And finally, we can access Jenkins application using the URL.
We will see that at the end of the setup.
Now let me go and create CentOS container C. If you remember,
we already pulled some images without
Docker host and also we are running with some containers.
Fine.
Now let me go and create a new container.
So how to create a container simply by running a command called Docker run hyphen,
hyphen D. Now let me provide some name for my container,
let's say my Jenkins.
And let me map the ports.
See here I'm taking 7 thousand on my co-host and egg 00 on my container.
So here, why I am taking 800 port on my container
means actually we are going to run Jenkins on top of Tomcat application server.
And by default, Tomcat application server will run on port number edge,
edge rho, c, same port number.
You can also consider on your Docker host to map with that.
But if you remember, we already use that port for some other application.
That's why on my Docker host I'm taking different port.
That's fine. Now let me do CentOS images.
So I'm taking CentOS.
Now let me create a container.
So container has been created.
Now let me see that.
Say this is the container just novae we created.
No, let me enter into it.
Docker EX C hyphen IT,
then your container, let's say shall as bash.
Now we are inside of your container.
Now let me open ways, release information.
And here one more thing.
If clear command is not working,
then simply use Control L in your keyboard so that it will clear your screen.
That's fine.
Now we are ready with CentOS container.
What are the remaining requirements?
We need to install Java,
we need to install Tomcat,
and then we have to download Jenkins application,
and we have to copy that to Tomcat web apps folder.
Now for these three requirements,
actually we hold different steps.
We have almost tool steps.
No, let me go into these tools steps.
The very first step is simply we are updating.
Yeah, let me enter one by one.
So you have to wait for some time for these setups than,
than let me install APL release.
Then let me install our Java.
So it is installing Java.
Once it is installed,
we can verify that by taking Java if unwashed and command.
Okay, it is done. Now let me verify the Washington.
Yes, Java has been installed.
The next thing is W get command.
When it installed obligate because we need to download Tomcat tar file.
So for that we need W get command.
As of now, we are not having W get command with your container.
That's why I'm installing it.
Fine.
Say to download your Tomcat is simply you can take this a step or go
to your official Tomcat dot Apache.org website.
And from there, go to your required motion.
Let say suppose Tomcat mine,
then here we have corruption.
So here we have tar.gz.
Simply do right-click and then copy linker does,
then go to your container.
And one more thing.
So Here let me navigate into user local.
And here I am directly downloading that they quite Tomcat nowadays downloading.
So it will take some time. Just wait for that.
So after that, let me go with next step.
We will we will extract that file.
It has been downloaded.
No, let me extract it simply by taking.
Now see that our Tomcat has been extracted.
No, let me remove it anyway. I don't want that.
Fine. Now let me rename that Apache Tomcat nine dot-dot-dot,
whatever the version is that,
that I want to rename it into,
let's say Tomcat nine simply.
Yes.
Now we have Tomcat nine here.
So after that, we need to export Catalina home.
Let me simply follow this.
Fine.
Now we are ready with the Tomcat.
Next thing is we need to download our Jenkins where phi.
So for that what I can do is simply I can go to Jenkins website.
Jenkins that I won't.
So here we have a download option, click on that.
And in long-term support we have Jenkins Java package that has a var file.
Simply do right-click and select Copy link address.
Then come here.
See actually we need to copy that to Jenkins dot var file to web apps.
So what I will do is directly,
I will go to Tomcat web apps folder. Now.
So here what I will do is I will download that var file.
That's a simply, ok, fine.
Now we are ready with our Tomcat and Jenkins var file.
The next thing is we need to start our Tomcat. No, let me start it.
Yes, Tom can has been started.
If you want to verify, you can verify with PSI FF and E F pipeline grip, Tomcat.
It is running.
That's fine. Now let me come out from your container. Fine.
See, we created a container by mapping 7 thousand port of your Docker host with age 0,
NGO port off your container.
Now whenever if you want to access your application,
always you have to access that application with respect to two docker host only.
Now, see, this is the URL to access your Jenkins application.
Now let me go to my browser.
So here simply I will take HTTP then docker host IP.
So now this is my IP of my Docker host.
Then colon 7 thousand poor ease off our docker host, slash Jenkins.
I know it will open your Jenkins application.
Perfect, it is opening. That's fine.
Now we done with our setup and assume that this setup is
done with our let's set test environment.
Now, I need same kind of setup in my UAT,
SIT ON also in product.
So what we have to do, what are the steps to be followed in our test environment?
Same steps we need to follow in our UAT SIT unprocessed.
But actually it is a time taking process because anyway,
to create a container,
it is one step.
But to install your jar,
Tomcat and Jenkins, We have to follow these steps.
So why we need to repeat these steps in different environments?
So instead of that, what we will do is we will create
our custom image such that that image should how our required Java,
required Tomcat version and also required Jenkins.
And by using that Docker custom image,
we can create our setup with single-step simply by running this command.
Now here we have two ways to create custom Docker image.
They are using from a container and using docker file,
actually creating custom Docker image using Docker file is very, very important concept.
We will discuss that later.
But for time being, let me go with a very simple way that is from a container simply by
using this command now here to create custom Docker image from my container.
Your container should now all your requirements.
If you remember, we already done with all those things.
I mean, if we go into this container, my Jenkins container,
inside that jenkins container,
you how your required Java Tomcat version and also jenkins.
No, let me create a custom Docker image from my Jenkins container.
Very simple, simply by using docker commit,
by taking this container name or container ID,
you can go with anyone of that.
Now let me take container name.
Now I want to create an image with the name,
let say Jenkins with Tomcat setup on CentOS.
Wanting to take this lengthen and just I'm taking for your understanding purpose.
Fine. Now it is creating your Docker image, custom image.
So it will take some time. Just wait for that.
Because our container has a java Tomcat and Jenkins.
Fine, it has been created.
Now let me list Docker images.
See that this is the image just now we created.
Now by taking this image with a single step,
we can create our required setup.
In our required any documents.
It may be test or UAT OR SIT or Proud.
What I will do is let me remove this running container simply by
taking docker remove hyphen F forcefully I'm removing because it is running.
That's fine.
Now we have these are the running containers and these are the images.
So if you remember, this is our custom Docker image.
Now I'm creating a container simply by taking docker run,
hyphen IT, iphone DIE.
Then let's say hyphen,
hyphen, name my Jenkins.
Then let me map the ports simply 7 thousand.
I'm mapping with 8080,
fine, then image ID or imagining.
So what we have to take,
we have to take our custom image.
Now by running this command with a single step,
you are going to do your setup.
Our setup is nothing but simply this one.
This entire thing we are going to do with a single command.
Now see, Now if you go with your container,
Docker EX easy hyphen IP, Bash.
Now see that Java version?
Yes. And let me navigate into user local.
And here you see that there is a Tomcat mine.
And go to that Tomcat web apps.
And here if you observe,
didn't kiss, is there?
No, with one single step,
we have done our entire setup.
Now let me verify whether Tomcat is up and running or not.
Generally it won't start because we created a custom image from a container.
But whenever if you create a custom image from your Docker file.
So in that case, we have an option to start your Tomcat automatically.
We will see that while creating our custom image from a Dockerfile.
Fine.
Anyway, it is not starting now let me run our command to start the word Tomcat.
Now you're, Tomcat has been started running.
Now go and access your URL.
I mean, to access your Jenkins application.
So simply by taking HTTP host colon port number than Jenkins,
see that now we are able to access our jenkins application.
Fine.
Now let me come more from your container.
See now by using this custom image with one single step,
we can create our setup in our different environments.
Now it is very easy, no c.
Instead of going with these tools steps,
we can create our container with
the requirements with one single step by taking this image.
So that is the advantage if you create your custom Docker image.
Okay? Okay guys, thank you for watching this video.